# Swagger Specification

## Version 1.1

### Swagger: A simple, open standard for describing REST APIs with JSON

API Declaration
==========

The API Declaration provides all information about the API itself.  It contains base server
information as well as two sections: `apis` and `models`.

While it might seem repetitive, it's important to include the following base server fields:

```
{
  "apiVersion": "0.2",
  "swaggerVersion": "1.1",
  "basePath": "http://petstore.swagger.wordnik.com/api",
  "resourcePath": "/pet.{format}"
  
  ...

  "apis" : [...]
  "models" : {...}
}
```

Note in the above example there is a `resourcePath` element which is essentially the relative path
to the declaration being shown.  The `basePath` field is very important--while it's very common
to have the Resource Listing and API Declarations on the server providing the APIs themselves, it
is NOT required--in fact, for situations where the server does not automatically generate the Swagger
Specification, a complete set of declarations can be provided as static files.  One can even
generate the Swagger Specification files for existing, non-Swagger services (you of course need to
manually figure out how the server behaves first).

 
### APIs

Each `api` is declared in this array.  The `path` field uniquely defines an api, and it should be 
unique in the array.  Multiple `operations` exist in an `api`, and can represent the different HTTP 
operations.

An example api is below, with some sections omitted:

```
  "apis":[
    {
      "path":"/pet.{format}/{petId}",
      "description":"Operations about pets",
      "operations":[
        {
          "httpMethod":"GET",
          "nickname":"getPetById",
          "responseClass":"Pet",
          "parameters":[ ... ]
          "summary":"Find pet by its unique ID"
          "notes": "Only Pets which you have permission to see will be returned",
          "errorResponses":[ ... ]
        }
      ]
    }
```

In this `api`, there is one `operation`.  If there are no operations in the `api`, an empty array should be
returned.  The fields in the operation are:

`httpMethod`.  This is the HTTP method required to invoke this operation--the allowable values are `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE`.

`nickname`.  This is an required field provided by the server for the convenience of the UI and client
code generator, and is used to provide a shebang in the swagger-ui.

`responseClass`.  This is what is returned from the method--in short, it's either `void`, a `primitive`, a `complex` or a `container`
return value.  See the [datatypes](datatypes) section for more detail on supported datatypes.

`parameters`.  These are the inputs to the operation--see the [parameters](parameters) section for details.  If
there are no required or optional `parameters` for an operation, an empty array should be returned.

`summary`.  This is a short summary of what the operation does.  For maximum readability in the 
[swagger-ui](http://github.com/wordnik/swagger-ui), this field should be less than 60 characters

`notes`.  A longer text field to explain the behavior of the operation.

`errorResponses`.  An array describing the `error` cases returned by the operation.  See the [errors](errors) section for more detail
on this object.

Alongside the `apis` is a `models` hash.  This contains a listing of all `non-primitive` datatypes required by ALL
apis described in this particular API Declaration.  Note!  Models declarations may repeat across different API Declarations.
Each declaration should function in a stand-alone fashion and provide all information necessary.

All HTTP operations for a particular `path` should be grouped in a single `api` object.  There should be no
duplicate HTTP methods for a single path.

Resource Listing
==========

The Resource Listing creates an inventory of all APIs and is provided by default at the `/api-docs.json` path.  For example:

```js
{
  apiVersion: "0.2",
  swaggerVersion: "1.1",
  basePath: "http://petstore.swagger.wordnik.com/api",
  apis: [
    {
      path: "/pet.{format}",
      description: "Operations about pets"
    },
    {
      path: "/user.{format}",
      description: "Operations about user"
    }
  ]
}
```

The above example demonstrates the following required fields:

`swaggerVersion`.  This field must be one of the supported [Swagger Versions](/Changelog.md).  Providing
 this gives the best compatibility between swagger clients and [Swagger UI](http://github.com/wordnik/swagger-ui) 

`basePath`.  This is the base path of the server declaring the apis.

`apis`.  This is an array of `api`s available to the caller, and contain the relative `path` to the
 [API declaration](Api-Declaration).  If no apis are available, an empty array
 should be returned.
 
 `description` is an optional but recommended field to describe what the api does.

#### Other Notes

The full path to the resource listing is the entry point to swagger--both UI and client
generators will be pointing to this location.  In the above example, a `.{format}` is contained
on the `path` element.  While this suffix is optional, it is recommended as many APIs provide
both JSON and XML formats.

* base path points to the location of the service and does not contain a trailing slash
* The `.{format}` syntax is not required.
* zero to many apis in api array
* an optional `apiVersion` is provided.  The intent of this field is to provide information about the api service itself.

Parameters
==========

Parameters describe the inputs into an API operation.  They live in the `operation` object:

```json

  "apis":[
    {
      "path": "/pet.{format}/{petId}",
      "description": "Operations about pets",
      "operations": [
        {
          "parameters":[
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "petId",
              "description": "ID of pet that needs to be fetched",
              "dataType": "string",
              "required": true,
              "allowableValues": {
                "max": 10,
                "min": 0,
                "valueType": "RANGE"
              },
              "allowMultiple": false
            }
          ],
          ...

```

The `parameters` array may be empty if the `operation` requires no parameters.  The fields are:

`paramType`.  This is the type of the parameter.  It can be only one of the following: 
`path`, `query`, `body`, `header` or `form`.

A description of the fields is:

`name`.  This is the unique name for the parameter.  Each `name` must be unique, even if
they are associated with different `paramType` values.  Other notes on the `name` field:

* If `paramType` is `body`, the `name` is used only for UI and codegeneration.

* If `paramType` is `path`, the `name` field must correspond to the associated path segment from the `path`
field in the `api` object

* If `paramType` is `query`, the `name` field corresponds to the query param name.

`description`.  This is the human-readable description for the parameter.

`dataType`.  For `path`, `query`, and `header` `paramType`s, this field must be a `primitive`.
For `body`, this can be a `complex` or `container` datatype.

`required`.  For `path`, this is always true.  Otherwise, this field tells the client
whether or not the field must be supplied.

`allowableValues`.  This is an optional field which restricts the input to either a `List` or
`Range` of allowable input values.  See the [datatypes](datatypes) section for more details
on the `allowableValues` field.

`allowMultiple`.  For `query` params, this specifies that a comma-separated list of values can
be passed to the API.  For `path` and `body` types, this field cannot be true.

Datatypes
==========

Swagger Spec supports `primitive`, `complex` and `container` values for both input and output.  Any datatype
which is not a `primitive` must be defined in the `models` section of the API Declaration.

#### Primitives

Since different programming languages represent primitive values differently, the Swagger spec supports only the
following standard values:

|Swagger Type|     Description |
|------------|-----------------|
byte         |   | 
boolean      |   | 
int          |   |
long         |   | 
float        |   | 
double       |   | 
string       |   | 
date         |   a ISO-8601 Date, which is represented in a String (1970-01-01T00:00:00.000+0000)|

Note that `primitive` and `complex` names are case-sensitive.

#### Complex Types

The specification supports any complex type as long as it is declared in the `models` section.  The format
for declaring a complex type follows [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org/) and is shown in the following example:

```json

    "Tag": {
      "properties":{
        "id":{
          "type": "long",
          "required": true,
          "description": "unique identifier for the tag"
        },
        "name":{
          "type": "string"
        }
      },
      "id":"Tag"
    }

```

In the simple `model` above, the `Tag` model has two fields--`id` of type `Long` and `name` of type `String`.  
The `id` field in the model provides the `model` name, in this case `Tag`.  Note that `id` is required.

The `property` has an optional human-readable `description`.  It can also contain complex types--however
the `model` description should be flat: that is, references to complex types are valid but 
they should be declared in the `models` array.  For example:

```json

    "Pet":{
      "properties":{
        "tag":{
          "type":"Tag",
        },
        "id":{
          "type":"long"
        },
        ...
    }

```

Here the `Pet` model has a `tag` property which is the complex type `Tag` from above.  

Some model properties may be restricted to a fixed set of values.  To support this use
case, the property field can have an optional `allowableValues` property, which supports both
a `List` of values or a numeric `Range`.  For example:

```json

    "Pet":{
      "id":"Pet",
      "properties":{
      ...
        "status":{
          "type":"string",
          "description":"pet status in the store",
          "allowableValues":{
            "valueType":"LIST",
            "values":[
              "available",
              "pending",
              "sold"
            ]
          }
        },
        "happiness": {
          "type": "int",
          "description": "how happy the Pet appears to be, where 10 is 'extremely happy'",
          "allowableValues": {
            "valueType": "RANGE",
            "min": 1,
            "max": 10
          }
        },
        ...

```

Putting information like this in the model declaration gives the consumer a better chance
to provide compatible models to the server.

#### Containers

Containers can hold `primitive` or `complex` datatypes.  The supported list of containers is:

|Container|Description|
|---|---|
`List` | An ordered list of values |
`Set` | An unordered set of unique values |
`Array` | An unordered list of values |

Containers must hold primitive or complex datatypes--nested containers are not supported.  Containers are defined in the json description as follows:

```json
    "Pet":{
      "id": "Pet",
      "properties":{
      ...
        "categories":{
          "type":"List",
          "description":"categories that the Pet belongs to",
          "items":{
             "$ref":"Category"
          }
        }
```

In this case, the `Pet` has an attribute called `categories` which is of type `List of Category` objects.

Error Declaration
==========

The API Declaration should describe how the different `errorResponses` map to the
business logic of the API.  For instance, if a 404 is returned, it may be due to a variety
of reasons--invalid resource, object cannot be found, invalid parameter, etc.  While
the HTTP response codes can be interpreted by the consumer correctly, often they are
ambiguous and can benefit from some documentation.

The `errorResponse` object contains just two fields, as shown below:

```json
"errorResponses":[
  {
    "code": 400,
    "reason": "Raised if a user supplies an invalid username format"
  },
  {
    "code": 404,
    "reason": "The user cannot be found"
  }
],
```

|Field|Description|
|---|---|
`code` | This is the `HTTP` response code which causes the error condition |
`reason` | This is a text explanation of what will cause the error condition |
